= transient

http://github.com/midas/transient


== DESCRIPTION

Provides an API for making any ActiveRecord object transient.


== FEATURES

* Convenience methods for transient objects, ie. current?, expired?, expire!, etc.
* Callbacks for expiring current 'active' record prior to creating new one where certain configured fields 
  match.  See the Transient::ActiveRecordExtensions::InstanceMethods docs for more information.
* A callback to populate the expiring at field of a new record with DateTime.now unless a value was explicitly 
  specified for the effective at field.
* Automatically adds a presence validation for effective_at to the model.


== REQUIREMENTS

* Rails >= 3.0.0


== INSTALL

  gem sources -a http://gemcutter.org
  sudo gem install transient


== INSTALL FOR RAILS

Add to Gemfile:

  gem "transient"

Run:

  bundle install


== USAGE

Add the transient fields to your model:

  def self.up
    add_column :users, :effective_at, :datetime, :null => false
    add_column :users, :expiring_at, :datetime
  end

Call the macro from your ActiveRecord descendant class:

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    acts_as_transient
  end

Now you can use all of the convenience methods, expired?, current?, expire!, etc.  See the InstanceMethods docs for more information.

Call the macro with a list of fields to use to lookup the current active record and expire it before saving the new one:

  class ContactNumber < ActiveRecord::Base
    acts_as_transient :single_active => %w(location user_id)
  end

This will try to find an existing contact number record where the location and user_id match the record being saved and expire
the existing record before saving the new record.


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.


== LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2009 C. Jason Harrelson (midas)

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE
